Welcome to the last video
of this module.
A brief introduction
to computer vision.
You're almost there.
Today, we will learn
the last introductory
piece required to
begin developing
basic perception algorithms
for self-driving cars.
Specifically, we will
be talking about
image filtering through cross
correlation and
convolution operations.
We will also discuss some
of the common uses for
these operations and relate
them to the self-driving task.
First, let us begin with
the motivation on why we
would use image filtering.
The image formation process is
susceptible to lots of
different noise sources.
Here you can see the camera man,
a very famous photo created at
MIT that is used for testing
computer vision algorithms.
Now let us add salt and
pepper noise to this image,
by randomly turning some of
its pixels white
and others black.
How can we retrieve
a reasonable visual appearance of
the original image
from such a noisy one?
Image filtering is
as simple and efficient method
to eliminate noise.
You will also see that
depending on the filter,
a variety of operations can be
performed on images in
an efficient manner.
But first, let us see
how image filtering
helps reduce salt and
pepper noise as
a motivating example.
If we look at the image array,
we noticed that salt
and pepper noise
usually results in
outlier pixels,
low-value pixels in
a high-value neighborhood
or high-value pixels in
a low-value neighborhood.
One idea to reduce
this noise is to
compute the mean of
the whole neighborhood,
and replace the outlier pixel
with this mean value.
Let us define G as the output
of our filter operation.
The equation of the mean can
be described in terms of k,
u and v. Here,
2k plus one is the filter size.
In this case, the size of
our neighborhood which is
three leads to a k
that's equal to one.
u and v are the center pixel
image coordinates.
Computing the mean
results in 80 for
the top neighborhood and
10 for the bottom one.
The final step is to
replace the center pixel
of each of those neighborhoods
by the corresponding mean.
We have successfully
reduced the noise and
smooth the image array values
in this neighborhood.
The mean equation can
be generalized by
adding a weight to every pixel
in the neighborhood.
The weight matrix H
is called a kernel.
This generalized form is
termed cross-correlation,
as it defines a correlation
between each pixel and
every other pixel in
the neighborhood.
For the mean filter
defined above,
we now represented with
the following kernel.
A three-by-three matrix filled
with the value one-ninth.
Another kernel for
noise reduction
is the Gaussian kernel,
where the center pixel
is weighted more than
the neighboring pixels and
the weights follow
a Gaussian distribution.
Now let's apply these kernels
to our camera man image.
We can see that our kernels
successfully reduces
the salt and pepper noise.
However, it also
blurred our image,
an inevitable consequence
of these linear filters.
This blur can be
reduced by tuning
the parameters specific
to each type of filter.
Now, we will define
another useful operation
used for image filtering.
A convolution is
a cross-correlation,
where the filter is
flipped both horizontally
and vertically before being
applied to the image.
To apply the convolution,
we take each row of our kernel,
flip it and replace it at
its corresponding symmetric
position from the middle row.
Mathematically convolution can be
described as
the following equation.
Note that we simply manipulated
the image coordinates instead
of flipping the kernel.
What are the advantages of
using a convolution
over a kernel?
Unlike correlation,
convolution is associative,
meaning the order of
multiplication of
kernels does not matter.
We can therefore apply as many
consecutive linear kernels
to an image as we
want by precomputing
the combined convolution
of all the kernels,
and then performing
a single convolution
of the resulting kernel
with the image.
As an example, we apply
two linear kernels,
H and F, by computing
H times F and then
applying it to the image.
This results in a substantial
reduction in runtime,
especially if we need to process
images in real-time while
moving in a vehicle.
Now let's present
some important applications of
cross-correlation
and convolution operations.
Cross-correlation can be
used for template matching.
Template matching is
the problem where
we are given a pattern
or a template,
and we want to find
its location in the image.
This can be done by
finding the location of
the highest value of the output
of cross-correlation,
between the template
and the image.
To visualize this better,
let's superimpose
the colorized output
of cross-correlation on
top of our target image.
Here red is a high
cross-correlation response,
while blue is
a very low response.
The location of the template
and the image is then the u,
v coordinates of the pixel with
the highest value from
the output of
the cross-correlation.
We can check that
our correlation is correct
by superimposing
the template on the u,
v coordinates we just found.
This method can be used as
a starting point for
the identification of signs,
and even for lean detection,
although challenges arise with
the approach in practice.
Another important
application that
can be performed
using convolutions,
is image gradient computation.
Image gradients
can be computed by
a convolution with a kernel
that performs finite difference.
We can rotate our kernel in
different orientations
to get vertical,
horizontal or even diagonal
gradients of an image at a pixel.
Image gradients are
extremely useful for
detection of edges and corners,
and are used extensively
in self-driving for
image feature and
object detection, for example.
In this lesson, you learned
how to perform cross-correlation
and convolution as well
as some of the uses
of these operations.
These operations will prove
to be very useful later on in
the course when we discuss
convolution neural networks.
Next week we will
deal deeper into
image processing to
learn how to distill
useful information from
these high dimensional
objects. Well done.
You've completed
the first week of this course.
By now you should know how to
represent a digital image.
How points in 3D relate
to pixels in an image.
How to compute 3D point
coordinates from
a pair of images,
and how to process images using
cross-correlation
and convolution operations.
For this week's assignment,
we will use what we've learnt as
building blocks for
a simple distance to
impact perception module for
self-driving cars. Good luck.